test/README.rst, before:

=======
 Tests
=======

The CairoSVG testing suite is based on the official SVG test suite available on
the W3 website:

http://www.w3.org/Graphics/SVG/WG/wiki/Test_Suite_Overview

You'll find in this folder:

- ``svg`` with the source SVG files
- ``resources`` and ``images`` with various resources for the SVG files
- ``fail`` with the failing tests

Most of the tests are regression tests: they generate reference images using an
old version on CairoSVG and compare them to the current version. These tests
are really useful if you changed the code, but they can also be launched to
check that CairoSVG works on your computer.

You can test CairoSVG by launching ``nosetests`` in the root folder of the
repository. You can launch the tests only on one image (or more than one,
separated by a comma) using::

  CAIROSVG_TEST_FILES=image.svg nosetests --match=test_images test

As CairoSVG does not handle SVG fonts, you can install the corresponding OTF
fonts in order to test CairoSVG with the right fonts. They have already been
generated for you in the ``resources`` folder.

You also need Arial to be aliased by Liberation Sans (may already be done by
your distribution).

Commit message:

Split tests, add tests and use regular expressions for some helpers

test/README.rst, after:

=======
 Tests
=======

The CairoSVG testing suite is based on the official SVG test suite available on
the W3 website:

http://www.w3.org/Graphics/SVG/WG/wiki/Test_Suite_Overview

You'll find in this folder:

- ``*.py`` with various tests inside
- ``svg`` with the source SVG files for non-regression tests
- ``resources`` and ``images`` with various resources for the SVG files
- ``fail`` with the failing tests

Most of the tests are regression tests: they generate reference images using an
old version on CairoSVG and compare them to the current version. These tests
are really useful if you changed the code, but they can also be launched to
check that CairoSVG works on your computer.

You can test CairoSVG by launching ``nosetests`` in the root folder of the
repository. You can launch the tests only on one image (or more than one,
separated by a comma) using::

  CAIROSVG_TEST_FILES=image.svg nosetests --match=test_images test/test_non_regression.py

As CairoSVG does not handle SVG fonts, you can install the corresponding OTF
fonts in order to test CairoSVG with the right fonts. They have already been
generated for you in the ``resources`` folder.
