pages/user_documentation.rst, before:

====================
 User Documentation
====================

:Author: Guillaume Ayoub

:Date: 2011-02-13

:Abstract: This document is a short description for installing and using
 CairoSVG.

.. contents::

Installation
============

Dependencies
------------

CairoSVG is written in pure python and only depends on Pycairo [#]_. It is
known to work with Python 2.6, 2.7, 3.1 and 3.2.

Linux and MacOS users certainly have Python already installed. For Windows
users, please install Python [#]_ thanks to the adequate installer.

.. [#] `Pycairo website <http://cairographics.org/pycairo/>`_.

.. [#] `Python download page <http://python.org/download/>`_.

CairoSVG
--------

CairoSVG can be freely downloaded on the `project website, download section
<http://www.cairosvg.org/download>`_. Just get the file and unzip it in a
folder of your choice.


Usage
=====

Description
-----------

Here is the simple CairoSVG usage::

  Usage: cairosvg.py filename [options]

  Options:
    -h, --help            show this help message and exit
    -v, --version         show version and exit
    -f FORMAT, --format=FORMAT
                          output format
    -d DPI, --dpi=DPI     svg resolution
    -o OUTPUT, --output=OUTPUT
                          output filename

Supported output formats are ``pdf``, ``ps`` and ``png`` (default is
``pdf``). The default output is the standard output. If an output filename is
given, the format is automatically chosen according to the extension.

Moreover, if ``-`` is used as filename, CairoSVG reads the SVG string from the
standard input.

Examples
--------

Here are some usage examples:

.. code-block:: bash

  # Convert to pdf, write to standard output
  cairosvg test.svg

  # Convert to png, write to standard output
  cairosvg test.svg -f png

  # Convert to ps, write to test.ps
  cairosvg test.svg -o test.ps

  # Convert an SVG string to pdf, write to standard output
  echo "<svg height='30' width='30'><text y='10'>123</text></svg>" | cairosvg -

Commit message:

Add the lxml and cssutils optional dependancies in the documentation

pages/user_documentation.rst, after:

====================
 User Documentation
====================

:Author: Guillaume Ayoub

:Date: 2011-02-13

:Abstract: This document is a short description for installing and using
 CairoSVG.

.. contents::

Installation
============

Dependencies
------------

CairoSVG is written in pure Python and only depends on Pycairo [#]_. It is
known to work with Python 2.6, 2.7, 3.1 and 3.2.

Linux and MacOS users certainly have Python already installed. For Windows
users, please install Python [#]_ thanks to the adequate installer.

CairoSVG can use lxml [#]_ to parse the SVG file, and cssutils [#]_ to apply
external CSS (i.e. not included in the ``style`` attribute of the tags). If
these packages are not available, CSS will only be supported in the ``style``
attributes.

.. [#] `Pycairo website <http://cairographics.org/pycairo/>`_.

.. [#] `Python download page <http://python.org/download/>`_.

.. [#] `lxml website <http://lxml.de/>`_.

.. [#] `cssutils website <http://cthedot.de/cssutils/>`_.


CairoSVG
--------

CairoSVG can be freely downloaded on the `project website, download section
<http://www.cairosvg.org/download>`_. Just get the file and unzip it in a
folder of your choice.


Usage
=====

Description
-----------

Here is the simple CairoSVG usage::

  Usage: cairosvg.py filename [options]

  Options:
    -h, --help            show this help message and exit
    -v, --version         show version and exit
    -f FORMAT, --format=FORMAT
                          output format
    -d DPI, --dpi=DPI     svg resolution
    -o OUTPUT, --output=OUTPUT
                          output filename

Supported output formats are ``pdf``, ``ps`` and ``png`` (default is
``pdf``). The default output is the standard output. If an output filename is
given, the format is automatically chosen according to the extension.

Moreover, if ``-`` is used as filename, CairoSVG reads the SVG string from the
standard input.

Examples
--------

Here are some usage examples:

.. code-block:: bash

  # Convert to pdf, write to standard output
  cairosvg test.svg

  # Convert to png, write to standard output
  cairosvg test.svg -f png

  # Convert to ps, write to test.ps
  cairosvg test.svg -o test.ps

  # Convert an SVG string to pdf, write to standard output
  echo "<svg height='30' width='30'><text y='10'>123</text></svg>" | cairosvg -
